releases: add TiDB 7.1.0 release notes (stable version) (#13484)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-7.1.0.md

</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/tiflash-disaggregated-and-s3" target="_blank">TiFlash decouples storage and compute, and adds S3 shared storage (experimental)</a></td>
    <td>TiFlash introduces a cloud-native architecture as an option:
Disaggregates TiFlash's compute and storage, which is a milestone for elastic HTAP resource utilization.
Introduces S3-based storage engine, which can provide shared storage at a lower cost.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/system-variables#tidb_store_batch_size" target="_blank">TiKV supports batch aggregating data requests</a></td>

Reviewer: @Oreoxmt This URL is "/dev/" instead of a hardcoded version number, which is unlike previous docs versions. Will this work if we just replace the "dev" with "7.1"?

Author: @samhld https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1 is not available (404 Not Found) before the release day. I will create a new PR to update all links in the highlight table from `/dev` to `/v7.1` after https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.1 is available.

    <td>This enhancement significantly reduces total RPCs in TiKV batch-get operations. In situations where data is highly dispersed and the gRPC thread pool has insufficient resources, batching coprocessor requests can improve performance by more than 50%.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/troubleshoot-hot-spot-issues#scatter-read-hotspots" target="_blank">Load-based replica read</a></td>
    <td>In a read hotspot scenario, TiDB can redirect read requests for a hotspot TiKV node to its replicas. This feature efficiently scatters read hotspots and optimizes the use of cluster resources. To control the threshold for triggering load-based replica read, you can adjust the system variable <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/system-variables#tidb_load_based_replica_read_threshold-new-in-v700" target="_blank"><code>tidb_load_based_replica_read_threshold</code></a>.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Reliability and availability</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/tidb-resource-control" target="_blank">Resource control by resource groups</a> (GA)</td>

>    <td>Support resource management based on resource groups, which maps database users to the corresponding resource groups and sets quotas for each resource group based on actual needs.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   <td>GA'ed resource groups to allocate and isolate resources for different workloads in the same cluster. This significantly adds to multi-application cluster stability and sets the stage for multi-tenancy. GA'ing this feature includes simple tooling for estimating cluster capacity and workload quotas.</td>
```

    TiDB v6.6.0 introduces the Partitioned Raft KV storage engine as an experimental feature, which uses multiple RocksDB instances to store TiKV Region data, and the data of each Region is independently stored in a separate RocksDB instance. The new storage engine can better control the number and level of files in the RocksDB instance, achieve physical isolation of data operations between Regions, and support stably managing more data. Compared with the original TiKV storage engine, using the Partitioned Raft KV storage engine can achieve about twice the write throughput, three times the read throughput, and reduce the elastic scaling time by about 4/5 under the same hardware conditions and mixed read and write scenarios.

>     In TiDB v7.1.0, the Partitioned Raft KV storage engine is compatible with TiFlash and supports tools such as TiDB Lightning, BR, and TiCDC.

Reviewer: @tonyxuqqi  for review. I was under the impression the ecosystem support wasn't ready yet.

Author: @tonyxuqqi @benmaoer PTAL

Reviewer 2: > @tonyxuqqi for review. I was under the impression the ecosystem support wasn't ready yet.

BR, TiCDC, Lightning works, but TiFlash is not ready.

</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>

>     <td rowspan="3">Scalability and Performance</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td rowspan="4">Scalability and Performance</td>
```

      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiKV supports <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/system-variables#tidb_store_batch_size" target="_blank">batch aggregating data requests</a> (introduced in v6.6.0) </td>
    <td>This enhancement significantly reduces total RPCs in TiKV batch-get operations. In situations where data is highly dispersed and the gRPC thread pool has insufficient resources, batching coprocessor requests can improve performance by more than 50%.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/troubleshoot-hot-spot-issues#scatter-read-hotspots" target="_blank">Load-based replica read</a></td>
    <td>In a read hotspot scenario, TiDB can redirect read requests for a hotspot TiKV node to its replicas. This feature efficiently scatters read hotspots and optimizes the use of cluster resources. To control the threshold for triggering load-based replica read, you can adjust the system variable <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/system-variables#tidb_load_based_replica_read_threshold-new-in-v700" target="_blank"><code>tidb_load_based_replica_read_threshold</code></a>.</td>

>   </tr>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  </tr>
  <tr>
      <td>TiKV supports<a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/partitioned-raft-kv" target="_blank"> partitioned Raft KV storage engine </a> (experimental)</td>
    <td>TiKV introduces the next-generation storage engine, the partitioned Raft KV. By allowing each data region to have a dedicated RocksDB instance, it can expand the cluster's storage capacity from TB-level to PB-level and provide more stable write latency and stronger scalability.</td>
    </tr>
```

    <td>Support MySQL-compatible multi-valued indexes and enhance the JSON type to improve compatibility with MySQL 8.0. This feature improves the efficiency of membership checks on multi-valued columns.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/time-to-live" target="_blank">Row-level TTL</a> (GA in v7.0.0)</td>
    <td>Support managing database size and improve performance by automatically expiring data of a certain age.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/generated-columns" target="_blank">Generated columns</a> (GA)</td>
    <td>Values in a generated column are calculated by a SQL expression in the column definition in real time. This feature pushes some application logic to the database level, thus improving query efficiency.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Security</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/security-compatibility-with-mysql" target="_blank">LDAP authentication</a></td>
    <td>TiDB supports LDAP authentication, which is compatible with <a href="https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/ldap-pluggable-authentication.html" target="_blank">MySQL 8.0</a>.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td> Audit log enhancement (<a href="https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-enterprise/" target="_blank">Enterprise edition</a> only)</td> 
>     <td>Significant capability improvement with finer-grained event filtering controls, convenient filter condition settings, added JSON format output files, and lifetime management of audit trails.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td> Audit log enhancement (<a href="https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-enterprise/" target="_blank">enterprise edition</a> only)</td> 
    <td>TiDB Enterprise Edition enhances the database auditing feature. It significantly improves the system capacity by providing more fine-grained event filtering controls, more user-friendly filter settings, newly added JSON formatted output files, and lifecycle management of audit logs.</td>
```

>     <td> Audit log enhancement (<a href="https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-enterprise/" target="_blank">enterprise edition</a> only)</td> 
>     <td>TiDB Enterprise Edition enhances the database auditing feature. It significantly improves the system capacity by providing more fine-grained event filtering controls, more user-friendly filter settings, newly added JSON formatted output files, and lifecycle management of audit logs.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td> Audit log enhancement (<a href="https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-enterprise/" target="_blank">Enterprise Edition</a> only)</td> 
    <td>TiDB Enterprise Edition enhances the database auditing feature. It significantly improves the system capacity by providing more fine-grained event filtering controls, more user-friendly filter settings, newly added JSON formatted output files, and lifecycle management of audit logs.</td>
```

>     <td>TiDB Enterprise Edition enhances the database auditing feature. It significantly improves the system capacity by providing more fine-grained event filtering controls, more user-friendly filter settings, newly added JSON formatted output files, and lifecycle management of audit logs.</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>TiDB Enterprise Edition enhances the database auditing feature. It significantly improves the system auditing capacity by providing more fine-grained event filtering controls, more user-friendly filter settings, newly added JSON formatted output files, and lifecycle management of audit logs.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/time-to-live" target="_blank">Row-level TTL</a> (GA in v7.0.0)</td>
    <td>Support managing database size and improve performance by automatically expiring data of a certain age.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/generated-columns" target="_blank">Generated columns</a> (GA)</td>
    <td>Values in a generated column are calculated by a SQL expression in the column definition in real time. This feature pushes some application logic to the database level, thus improving query efficiency.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Security</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/security-compatibility-with-mysql" target="_blank">LDAP authentication</a></td>
    <td>TiDB supports LDAP authentication, which is compatible with <a href="https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/ldap-pluggable-authentication.html" target="_blank">MySQL 8.0</a>.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> Audit log enhancement (<a href="https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-enterprise/" target="_blank">Enterprise Edition</a> only)</td>

>     <td>TiDB Enterprise Edition enhances the database auditing feature. It significantly improves the system auditing capacity by providing more fine-grained event filtering controls, more user-friendly filter settings, newly added JSON formatted output files, and lifecycle management of audit logs.</td>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    <td>TiDB Enterprise Edition enhances the database auditing feature. It significantly improves the system auditing capacity by providing more fine-grained event filtering controls, more user-friendly filter settings, a new file output format in JSON, and lifecycle management of audit logs.</td>
```

  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Performance

* Enhance the Partitioned Raft KV storage engine (experimental) [#11515](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11515) [#12842](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12842) @[busyjay](https://github.com/busyjay) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies) @[5kbpers](https://github.com/5kbpers) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) **tw:Oreoxmt**

>     TiDB v6.6.0 introduces the Partitioned Raft KV storage engine as an experimental feature, which uses multiple RocksDB instances to store TiKV Region data, and the data of each Region is independently stored in a separate RocksDB instance. The new storage engine can better control the number and level of files in the RocksDB instance, achieve physical isolation of data operations between Regions, and support stably managing more data. Compared with the original TiKV storage engine, using the Partitioned Raft KV storage engine can achieve about twice the write throughput, three times the read throughput, and reduce the elastic scaling time by about 4/5 under the same hardware conditions and mixed read and write scenarios.

Author: ```suggestion
    TiDB v6.6.0 introduces the Partitioned Raft KV storage engine as an experimental feature, which uses multiple RocksDB instances to store TiKV Region data, and the data of each Region is independently stored in a separate RocksDB instance. The new storage engine can better control the number and level of files in the RocksDB instance, achieve physical isolation of data operations between Regions, and support stably managing more data. Compared with the original TiKV storage engine, using the Partitioned Raft KV storage engine can achieve about twice the write throughput and reduce the elastic scaling time by about 4/5 under the same hardware conditions and mixed read and write scenarios.
```

  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Reliability and availability</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/tidb-resource-control" target="_blank">Resource control by resource groups</a> (GA)</td>

>    <td>Support resource management based on resource groups, which allocates and isolates resources for different workloads in the same cluster. This feature significantly enhances the stability of multi-application clusters and laies the foundation for multi-tenancy. In v7.1.0, this feature introduces the ability to estimate system capacity based on actual workload or hardware deployment.</td>

Reviewer: Not sure why I can't in-line edit here but "laies" should be "lays".

    For more information, see [documentation](/sql-non-prepared-plan-cache.md).

> * Supports the DDL distributed parallel execution framework [#41495](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41495) @[benjamin2037](https://github.com/benjamin2037)

Author: ```suggestion
* Supports the DDL distributed parallel execution framework [#41495](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41495) @[benjamin2037](https://github.com/benjamin2037) **tw:ran-huang**
```

> * Supports the DDL distributed parallel execution framework [#41495](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41495) @[benjamin2037](https://github.com/benjamin2037) **tw:ran-huang**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Support the DDL distributed parallel execution framework [#41495](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41495) @[benjamin2037](https://github.com/benjamin2037) **tw:ran-huang**
```

>     Before TiDB v7.1.0, only one TiDB node could serve as the DDL owner and execute DDL tasks. However, starting from TiDB v7.1.0, in the new distributed parallel execution framework, multiple TiDB nodes can execute the same DDL task in parallel, thus better utilizing the resources of the TiDB cluster and significantly improving the performance of DDL. In addition, you can linearly improve the performance of DDL by adding more TiDB nodes. It should be noted that this feature is currently an experimental feature and only supports `ADD INDEX` operations.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    Before TiDB v7.1.0, only one TiDB node can serve as the DDL owner and execute DDL tasks at the same time. Starting from TiDB v7.1.0, in the new distributed parallel execution framework, multiple TiDB nodes can execute the same DDL task in parallel, thus better utilizing the resources of the TiDB cluster and significantly improving the performance of DDL. In addition, you can linearly improve the performance of DDL by adding more TiDB nodes. Note that this feature is currently experimental and only supports `ADD INDEX` operations.
```

>     To use the distributed framework, set the value of [`tidb_enable_dist_task`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_dist_task) to `ON`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    To use the distributed framework, set the value of [`tidb_enable_dist_task`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_dist_task) to `ON`:
```

    ```sql
    SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_dist_task = ON;
    ```

>     For more information, refer to [the user documentation](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md).
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/troubleshoot-hot-spot-issues.md#scatter-read-hotspots).

* Enhance the capability of caching execution plans for non-prepared statements (experimental) [#36598](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36598) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) **tw:Oreoxmt**

>     TiDB v7.0.0 introduces non-prepared plan cache as an experimental feature to improve the load capacity of concurrent OLTP. In v7.1.0, TiDB enhances this feature and supports caching more SQL statements.

Reviewer: @Oreoxmt this feature has been pushed out of this release.

    With this feature, you can combine multiple small and medium-sized applications from different systems into a single TiDB cluster. When the workload of an application grows larger, it does not affect the normal operation of other applications. When the system workload is low, busy applications can still be allocated the required system resources even if they exceed the set read and write quotas, which can achieve the maximum utilization of resources. In addition, the rational use of the resource control feature can reduce the number of clusters, ease the difficulty of operation and maintenance, and save management costs.

    In TiDB v7.1.0, this feature introduces the ability to estimate system capacity based on actual workload or hardware deployment. The estimation ability provides you with a more accurate reference for capacity planning and assists you in better managing TiDB resource allocation to meet the stability needs of enterprise-level scenarios.

>     To improve user experience, TiDB Dashboard provides the [Resource Manager page](/dashboard/dashboard-resource-control.md). You can view the resource group configuration on this page and estimate cluster capacity in a visual way to facilitate reasonable resource allocation.

Author: ```suggestion
    To improve user experience, TiDB Dashboard provides the [Resource Manager page](/dashboard/dashboard-resource-manager.md). You can view the resource group configuration on this page and estimate cluster capacity in a visual way to facilitate reasonable resource allocation.
```

    In TiDB v7.1.0, this feature introduces the ability to estimate system capacity based on actual workload or hardware deployment. The estimation ability provides you with a more accurate reference for capacity planning and assists you in better managing TiDB resource allocation to meet the stability needs of enterprise-level scenarios.

>     To improve user experience, TiDB Dashboard provides a resource control management page. You can view the resource group configuration on this page and estimate capacities in a visual way to facilitate reasonable resource allocation.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    To improve user experience, TiDB Dashboard provides a [resource control management page](/dashboard/dashboard-resource-control.md). You can view the resource group configuration on this page and estimate capacities in a visual way to facilitate reasonable resource allocation.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/statistics.md#load-statistics).

* TiCDC supports the integrity validation feature for single-row data [#8718](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8718) [#42747](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42747) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan) **tw:Oreoxmt**

    Starting from v7.1.0, TiCDC introduces the data integrity validation feature, which uses a checksum algorithm to validate the integrity of single-row data. This feature helps verify whether any error occurs in the process of writing data from TiDB, replicating it through TiCDC, and then writing it to a Kafka cluster. The data integrity validation feature only supports changefeeds that use Kafka as the downstream and currently supports the Avro protocol.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-integrity-check.md).

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

* TiCDC optimizes DDL replication operations [#8686](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8686) @[nongfushanquan](https://github.com/nongfushanquan) **tw:ran-huang**

    Before v7.1.0, when you perform a DDL operation that affects all rows on a large table (such as adding or deleting a column), the replication latency of TiCDC would significantly increase. Starting from v7.1.0, TiCDC optimizes this replication operation and mitigates the impact of DDL operations on downstream latency.

    For more information, see [documentation](). (to be added)
```

    Starting from v7.1.0, TiCDC introduces the data integrity validation feature, which uses a checksum algorithm to validate the integrity of single-row data. This feature helps verify whether any error occurs in the process of writing data from TiDB, replicating it through TiCDC, and then writing it to a Kafka cluster. The data integrity validation feature only supports changefeeds that use Kafka as the downstream and currently supports the Avro protocol.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-integrity-check.md).

* TiCDC optimizes DDL replication operations [#8686](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8686) @[nongfushanquan](https://github.com/nongfushanquan) **tw:ran-huang**

    Before v7.1.0, when you perform a DDL operation that affects all rows on a large table (such as adding or deleting a column), the replication latency of TiCDC would significantly increase. Starting from v7.1.0, TiCDC optimizes this replication operation and mitigates the impact of DDL operations on downstream latency.

>     For more information, see [documentation](). (to be added)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](). (to be added)

```

    For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-checkpoint-restore.md).

* Optimize the strategy of loading statistics [#42160](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42160) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw:hfxsd**

>     Enabling synchronous loading of statistics can significantly reduce the number of statistics that must be loaded during startup, thus improving the speed of loading statistics. This feature increases the stability of TiDB in complex runtime environments and reduces the impact on the overall service when TiDB nodes restart. You can set the parameter [`lite-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#lite-init-stats-new-in-v710) to `true` to enable this feature. Note that this parameter is experimental.
> 
>     TiDB v7.1.0 also introduces the configuration parameter [`force-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#force-init-stats-new-in-v710). This parameter forces TiDB to provide service to the public after the statistics is loaded, avoiding SQL performance issues caused by unloaded statistics during the startup phase. This parameter is disabled by default.
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-configuration-file.md).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   TiDB v7.1.0 introduces lightweight statistics initialization as an experimental feature. Lightweight statistics initialization can significantly reduce the number of statistics that must be loaded during startup, thus improving the speed of loading statistics. This feature increases the stability of TiDB in complex runtime environments and reduces the impact on the overall service when TiDB nodes restart. You can set the parameter [`lite-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#lite-init-stats-new-in-v710) to `true` to enable this feature. Note that this parameter is experimental.

    To avoid SQL performance issues caused by unloaded statistics during the startup phase, TiDB v7.1.0 also introduces the configuration parameter [`force-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#force-init-stats-new-in-v710). You can control whether to force TiDB to provide service to the public after the statistics is loaded. This parameter is disabled by default.

    For more information, see [documentation](/statistics.md#load-statistics).
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-checkpoint-restore.md).

* Optimize the strategy of loading statistics [#42160](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42160) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw:hfxsd**

>    TiDB v7.1.0 introduces lightweight statistics initialization as an experimental feature. Lightweight statistics initialization can significantly reduce the number of statistics that must be loaded during startup, thus improving the speed of loading statistics. This feature increases the stability of TiDB in complex runtime environments and reduces the impact on the overall service when TiDB nodes restart. You can set the parameter [`lite-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#lite-init-stats-new-in-v710) to `true` to enable this feature. Note that this parameter is experimental.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   TiDB v7.1.0 introduces lightweight statistics initialization as an experimental feature. Lightweight statistics initialization can significantly reduce the number of statistics that must be loaded during startup, thus improving the speed of loading statistics. This feature increases the stability of TiDB in complex runtime environments and reduces the impact on the overall service when TiDB nodes restart. You can set the parameter [`lite-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#lite-init-stats-new-in-v710) to `true` to enable this feature. 
```

>     To avoid SQL performance issues caused by unloaded statistics during the startup phase, TiDB v7.1.0 also introduces the configuration parameter [`force-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#force-init-stats-new-in-v710). You can control whether to force TiDB to provide service to the public after the statistics is loaded. This parameter is disabled by default.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    To avoid SQL performance problems caused by unfinished statistics initialization during the startup phase, TiDB v7.1.0 also introduces the configuration parameter [`force-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#force-init-stats-new-in-v710). You can control whether to force TiDB to provide service to the public after the statistics is loaded. This parameter is disabled by default.
```

* Optimize the strategy of loading statistics [#42160](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42160) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes)

    Enabling synchronous loading of statistics can significantly reduce the number of statistics that must be loaded during startup, thus improving the speed of loading statistics. This feature increases the stability of TiDB in complex runtime environments and reduces the impact on the overall service when TiDB nodes restart. You can set the parameter [`lite-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#lite-init-stats-new-in-v710) to `true` to enable this feature. Note that this parameter is experimental.

>     TiDB v7.1.0 also introduces the configuration parameter [`force-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#force-init-stats-new-in-v710). This parameter forces TiDB to provide service to the public after the statistics is loaded, avoiding SQL performance issues caused by unloaded statistics during the startup phase. This configuration is disabled by default.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    TiDB v7.1.0 also introduces the configuration parameter [`force-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#force-init-stats-new-in-v710). This parameter forces TiDB to provide service to the public after the statistics is loaded, avoiding SQL performance issues caused by unloaded statistics during the startup phase. This parameter is disabled by default.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/statistics.md#load-statistics).

> * TiCDC supports the integrity validation feature for single-row data [#8718](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8718) [#42747](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42747) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan) **tw:Oreoxmt**

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* TiCDC supports the data integrity validation feature for single-row data [#8718](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8718) [#42747](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42747) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan) **tw:Oreoxmt**
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/statistics.md#load-statistics).

* TiCDC supports the integrity validation feature for single-row data [#8718](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8718) [#42747](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42747) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan) **tw:Oreoxmt**

    Starting from v7.1.0, TiCDC introduces the data integrity validation feature, which uses a checksum algorithm to validate the integrity of single-row data. This feature helps verify whether any error occurs in the process of writing data from TiDB, replicating it through TiCDC, and then writing it to a Kafka cluster. The data integrity validation feature only supports changefeeds that use Kafka as the downstream and currently supports the Avro protocol.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-integrity-check.md).

> 

Reviewer 5: * Optimize the policy for loading statistics [#42160](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42160) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw:hfxsd**

    After you enable the lightweight statistics initialization feature, TiDB can significantly reduce the number of statistics that must be loaded during startup, thus speeding up the loading of statistics during startup. This feature improves the stability of TiDB in complex operating environments, and reduces the impact on the overall service when some TiDB nodes are restarted. You can set the parameter [`lite-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#lite-init-stats-new-in-v710) to `true` to enable this feature. Note that this parameter is experimental.

     TiDB v7.1.0 also introduces the configuration parameter [`force-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#force-init-stats-new-in-v710). This parameter forces TiDB to provide service to the public after the statistics is loaded, avoiding SQL performance issues caused by unloaded statistics during the startup phase. This configuration is disabled by default. 

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-configuration-file.md).

    For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-checkpoint-restore.md).

* Optimize the strategy of loading statistics [#42160](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42160) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw:hfxsd**

   TiDB v7.1.0 introduces lightweight statistics initialization as an experimental feature. Lightweight statistics initialization can significantly reduce the number of statistics that must be loaded during startup, thus improving the speed of loading statistics. This feature increases the stability of TiDB in complex runtime environments and reduces the impact on the overall service when TiDB nodes restart. You can set the parameter [`lite-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#lite-init-stats-new-in-v710) to `true` to enable this feature. 

>     During TiDB startup, SQL statements executed before the initial statistics is fully loaded might have improper execution plans, thus causing performance issues. To avoid such issues, TiDB v7.1.0 introduces the configuration parameter [`force-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#force-init-stats-new-in-v710). With this option, you can control whether TiDB provides services only after statistics initialization has been finished during startup. This parameter is disabled by default.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    During TiDB startup, SQL statements executed before the initial statistics are fully loaded might have suboptimal execution plans, thus causing performance issues. To avoid such issues, TiDB v7.1.0 introduces the configuration parameter [`force-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#force-init-stats-new-in-v710). With this option, you can control whether TiDB provides services only after statistics initialization has been finished during startup. This parameter is disabled by default.
```

    Starting from v7.1.0, TiCDC introduces the data integrity validation feature, which uses a checksum algorithm to validate the integrity of single-row data. This feature helps verify whether any error occurs in the process of writing data from TiDB, replicating it through TiCDC, and then writing it to a Kafka cluster. The data integrity validation feature only supports changefeeds that use Kafka as the downstream and currently supports the Avro protocol.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-integrity-check.md).

* TiCDC optimizes DDL replication operations [#8686](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8686) @[nongfushanquan](https://github.com/nongfushanquan) **tw:ran-huang**

    Before v7.1.0, when you perform a DDL operation that affects all rows on a large table (such as adding or deleting a column), the replication latency of TiCDC would significantly increase. Starting from v7.1.0, TiCDC optimizes this replication operation and mitigates the impact of DDL operations on downstream latency.

    For more information, see [documentation](). (to be added)

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

* Improve the stability of TiDB Lightning when importing TiB-level data [#43510](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43510) [#43657](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43657) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) **tw:hfxsd**

    Starting from v7.1.0, TiDB Lightning has added four configuration items to improve stability when importing TiB-level data.

    - `tikv-importer.region-split-batch-size` controls the number of Regions when splitting Regions in a batch. The default value is `4096`.
    - `tikv-importer.region-split-concurrency` controls the concurrency when splitting Regions. The default value is the number of CPU cores.
    - `tikv-importer.region-check-backoff-limit` controls the number of retries to wait for the Region to come online after the split and scatter operations. The default value is `1800` and the maximum retry interval is two seconds. The number of retries will not be increased if any Region becomes online between retries.
    - `tikv-importer.pause-pd-scheduler-scope` controls the scope of pausing PD scheduling during data import. Available values are `"table"` and `"global"`. The default value is `"table"`. For TiDB versions earlier than v6.1.0, you can only configure the `"global"` option, which pauses global scheduling during data import. Starting from v6.1.0, the `"table"` option is supported, which means that scheduling is only paused for the Region where the target table data range is located. It is recommended to set this parameter to `"global"` in scenarios with large data volumes to improve stability.

  For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md).

```

    Starting from v7.1.0, TiCDC introduces the data integrity validation feature, which uses a checksum algorithm to validate the integrity of single-row data. This feature helps verify whether any error occurs in the process of writing data from TiDB, replicating it through TiCDC, and then writing it to a Kafka cluster. The data integrity validation feature only supports changefeeds that use Kafka as the downstream and currently supports the Avro protocol.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-integrity-check.md).

* TiCDC optimizes DDL replication operations [#8686](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8686) @[nongfushanquan](https://github.com/nongfushanquan) **tw:ran-huang**

    Before v7.1.0, when you perform a DDL operation that affects all rows on a large table (such as adding or deleting a column), the replication latency of TiCDC would significantly increase. Starting from v7.1.0, TiCDC optimizes this replication operation and mitigates the impact of DDL operations on downstream latency.

>     For more information, see [documentation](). (to be added)

Reviewer 4: Is there a document for reference here?

Reviewer 3: Thanks. Just added

* Improve the stability of TiDB Lightning when importing TiB-level data [#43510](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43510) [#43657](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43657) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) **tw:hfxsd**

    Starting from v7.1.0, TiDB Lightning has added four configuration items to improve stability when importing TiB-level data.

    - `tikv-importer.region-split-batch-size` controls the number of Regions when splitting Regions in a batch. The default value is `4096`.
    - `tikv-importer.region-split-concurrency` controls the concurrency when splitting Regions. The default value is the number of CPU cores.
    - `tikv-importer.region-check-backoff-limit` controls the number of retries to wait for the Region to come online after the split and scatter operations. The default value is `1800` and the maximum retry interval is two seconds. The number of retries will not be increased if any Region becomes online between retries.

>     - `tikv-importer.pause-pd-scheduler-scope` controls the scope of pausing PD scheduling during data import. Available values are `"table"` and `"global"`. The default value is `"table"`. For TiDB versions earlier than v6.1.0, you can only configure the `"global"` option, which pauses global scheduling during data import. Starting from v6.1.0, the `"table"` option is supported, which means that scheduling is only paused for the Region where the target table data range is located. It is recommended to set this parameter to `"global"` in scenarios with large data volumes to improve stability.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - `tikv-importer.pause-pd-scheduler-scope` controls the scope of pausing PD scheduling during data import. Available values are `"table"` and `"global"`. The default value is `"table"`. For TiDB versions earlier than v6.1.0, you can only configure the `"global"` option, which pauses global scheduling during data import. Starting from v6.1.0, the `"table"` option is supported, which means that scheduling is only paused for the Region that stores the target table data. It is recommended to set this parameter to `"global"` in scenarios with large data volumes to improve stability.
```

    Starting from v7.1.0, TiCDC introduces the data integrity validation feature, which uses a checksum algorithm to validate the integrity of single-row data. This feature helps verify whether any error occurs in the process of writing data from TiDB, replicating it through TiCDC, and then writing it to a Kafka cluster. The data integrity validation feature only supports changefeeds that use Kafka as the downstream and currently supports the Avro protocol.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-integrity-check.md).

* TiCDC optimizes DDL replication operations [#8686](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8686) @[nongfushanquan](https://github.com/nongfushanquan) **tw:ran-huang**

    Before v7.1.0, when you perform a DDL operation that affects all rows on a large table (such as adding or deleting a column), the replication latency of TiCDC would significantly increase. Starting from v7.1.0, TiCDC optimizes this replication operation and mitigates the impact of DDL operations on downstream latency.

>     For more information, see [documentation](). (to be added)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-faq.md#does-ticdc-replicate-data-changes-caused-by-lossy-ddl-operations-to-the-downstream).
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ddl-introduction.md#ddl-related-commands).

> * Support smooth cluster upgrade without canceling DDL operations [#issue number](link) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) **tw:ran-huang**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Support smooth cluster upgrade without manually canceling DDL operations [#39751](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39751) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) **tw:ran-huang**
```

>     Before TiDB v7.1.0, to upgrade a cluster, you must manually cancel the running or queued DDL tasks and then add them back after the upgrade is completed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Before TiDB v7.1.0, before upgrading a cluster, you must manually cancel the running or queued DDL tasks and then add them back after the upgrade is completed.
```

>     To offer a smoother upgrade experience, TiDB v7.1.0 introduces automatic pausing and resuming of DDL tasks. Starting from v7.1.0, you can upgrade your clusters without manually canceling DDL tasks. TiDB will automatically pause any running or queued DDL tasks before the upgrade and resume these tasks after the cluster has completed rolling upgrade, making it easier for you to upgrade your TiDB clusters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    To provide a smoother upgrade experience, TiDB v7.1.0 supports automatic pausing and resuming of DDL tasks. Starting from v7.1.0, you can upgrade your clusters without manually canceling DDL tasks. TiDB will automatically pause any running or queued DDL tasks before the upgrade and resume these tasks after the cluster has completed the rolling upgrade, making it easier for you to upgrade your TiDB clusters.

    For more information, see [documentation](to be added).
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ddl-introduction.md#ddl-related-commands).

> * Support smooth cluster upgrade without manually canceling DDL operations [#39751](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39751) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) **tw:ran-huang**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Support smooth cluster upgrade without manually canceling DDL operations [#39751](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39751) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala) **tw:ran-huang**
```

    Before TiDB v7.1.0, to upgrade a cluster, you must manually cancel its running or queued DDL tasks before the upgrade and then add them back after the upgrade.

>     To provide a smoother upgrade experience, TiDB v7.1.0 supports automatically pausing and resuming DDL tasks. Starting from v7.1.0, you can upgrade your clusters without manually canceling DDL tasks in advance. TiDB will automatically pause any running or queued DDL tasks before the upgrade and resume these tasks after the rolling upgrade, making it easier for you to upgrade your TiDB clusters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    To provide a smoother upgrade experience, TiDB v7.1.0 supports automatically pausing and resuming DDL tasks. Starting from v7.1.0, you can upgrade your clusters without manually canceling DDL tasks in advance. TiDB will automatically pause any running or queued user DDL tasks before the upgrade and resume these tasks after the rolling upgrade, making it easier for you to upgrade your TiDB clusters.
```

    Starting from v7.1.0, when providing the query service of [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIFLASH_TABLES`](/information-schema/information-schema-tiflash-tables.md) and [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIFLASH_SEGMENTS`](/information-schema/information-schema-tiflash-segments.md) system tables for TiDB, TiFlash uses the gRPC port instead of the HTTP port, which avoids the security risks of the HTTP service.

* Support LDAP authentication [#43580](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43580) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) **tw:ran-huang**

    Starting from v7.1.0, TiDB supports LDAP authentication and provides two authentication plugins: `authentication_ldap_sasl` and `authentication_ldap_simple`.

    For more information, see [documentation](/security-compatibility-with-mysql.md).

> 

Reviewer 6: "This is feature is included in Enterprise Edition. Please visit [TiDB Enterprise page](https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-enterprise/) to get Enterprise Edition and its documentation."

    Starting from v7.1.0, TiDB supports LDAP authentication and provides two authentication plugins: `authentication_ldap_sasl` and `authentication_ldap_simple`.

    For more information, see [documentation](/security-compatibility-with-mysql.md).

* Refactor the database auditing feature (Enterprise Edition) **tw:hfxsd**

    In v7.1.0, the database auditing capabilities have been refactored for TiDB Enterprise Edition, which significantly increases the scope of capabilities and improves the experience to meet the needs of enterprises for database security compliance:
    
    - Introduce the concepts of "Filter" and "Rule" to provide more granular audit event definitions and support more fine-grained audit settings.
    - Support defining rules in JSON format, providing a more friendly way for configuration.
    - Add automatic log rotation and space management functions. Support configuring log rotation in two dimensions: retention time and log size.
    - Support outputting audit logs in both TEXT and JSON formats for easy integration with third-party tools.
    - Support audit log redaction. You can replace all literals to enhance security.
    

>     Database auditing is an important feature in TiDB Enterprise Edition. Database auditing provides a powerful monitoring and auditing tool for enterprises to ensure data security and compliance. It can help managers in enterprises track the source and impact of database operations to ensure that data would not be illegally stolen or tampered with. At the same time, database auditing can also help enterprises to comply with various regulatory and compliance requirements to safeguard the legal and ethical compliance of enterprises. This feature has a very important application value for enterprise information security.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  Database auditing is an important feature in TiDB Enterprise Edition. Database auditing provides a powerful monitoring and auditing tool for enterprises to ensure data security and compliance. It can help managers in enterprises track the source and impact of database operations to ensure that data would not be illegally stolen or tampered with. At the same time, database auditing can also help enterprises to comply with various regulatory and compliance requirements to safeguard the legal and ethical compliance of enterprises. This feature has a very important application value for enterprise information security.
```

> * Refactor the database auditing feature (Enterprise Edition) **tw:hfxsd**
> 
>     In v7.1.0, the database auditing capabilities have been refactored for TiDB Enterprise Edition, which significantly increases the scope of capabilities and improves the experience to meet the needs of enterprises for database security compliance:
>     
>     - Introduce the concepts of "Filter" and "Rule" to provide more granular audit event definitions and support more fine-grained audit settings.
>     - Support defining rules in JSON format, providing a more friendly way for configuration.
>     - Add automatic log rotation and space management functions. Support configuring log rotation in two dimensions: retention time and log size.
>     - Support outputting audit logs in both TEXT and JSON formats for easy integration with third-party tools.
>     - Support audit log redaction. You can replace all literals to enhance security.
>     
>   Database auditing is an important feature in TiDB Enterprise Edition. Database auditing provides a powerful monitoring and auditing tool for enterprises to ensure data security and compliance. It can help managers in enterprises track the source and impact of database operations to ensure that data would not be illegally stolen or tampered with. At the same time, database auditing can also help enterprises to comply with various regulatory and compliance requirements to safeguard the legal and ethical compliance of enterprises. This feature has a very important application value for enterprise information security.
>     
>    This is feature is included in TiDB Enterprise Edition. Go to [TiDB Enterprise page](https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-enterprise/) to get TiDB Enterprise Edition and its documentation.

Author: ```suggestion
* Enhance the database auditing feature (Enterprise Edition) **tw:hfxsd**

    In v7.1.0, TiDB Enterprise Edition enhances the database auditing feature, which significantly expands its capacity and improves the user experience to meet the needs of enterprises for database security compliance:

    - Introduce the concepts of "Filter" and "Rule" for more granular audit event definitions and more fine-grained audit settings.
    - Support defining rules in JSON format, providing a more user-friendly configuration method.
    - Add automatic log rotation and space management functions, and support configuring log rotation in two dimensions: retention time and log size.
    - Support outputting audit logs in both TEXT and JSON formats, facilitating easier integration with third-party tools.
    - Support audit log redaction. You can replace all literals to enhance security.
    
  Database auditing is an important feature in TiDB Enterprise Edition. This feature provides a powerful monitoring and auditing tool for enterprises to ensure data security and compliance. It can help enterprises managers in tracking the source and impact of database operations to prevent illegal data theft or tampering. Furthermore, database auditing can also help enterprises meet various regulatory and compliance requirements, ensuring the legal and ethical compliance. This feature has important application value for enterprise information security.
    
   This feature is included in TiDB Enterprise Edition. To use this feature and its documentation, navigate to [TiDB Enterprise page](https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-enterprise/).

```

    If you have upgraded TiFlash to v7.1.0, then during the TiDB upgrade to v7.1.0, TiDB cannot read the TiFlash system tables ([`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIFLASH_TABLES`](/information-schema/information-schema-tiflash-tables.md) and [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIFLASH_SEGMENTS`](/information-schema/information-schema-tiflash-segments.md)).

> * TiDB Lightning in TiDB versions from v6.2.0 to v7.0.0 decides whether to pause global scheduling based on the TiDB cluster version. When TiDB cluster version >= v6.1.0, scheduling is only paused for the Region that stores the target table data and resumes after the target table import is complete. While for other versions, TiDB Lightning pauses global scheduling. Starting from TiDB v7.1.0, you can control whether to pause global scheduling by [`pause-pd-scheduler-scope`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md). By default, TiDB Lightning pauses scheduling for the Region that stores the target table data. If the target cluster version is earlier than v6.1.0, an error occurs. In this case you can change the value of the parameter to `"global"` and try again.**tw:hfxsd**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* TiDB Lightning in TiDB versions from v6.2.0 to v7.0.0 decides whether to pause global scheduling based on the TiDB cluster version. When TiDB cluster version >= v6.1.0, scheduling is only paused for the Region that stores the target table data and resumes after the target table import is complete. While for other versions, TiDB Lightning pauses global scheduling. Starting from TiDB v7.1.0, you can control whether to pause global scheduling by [`pause-pd-scheduler-scope`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md). By default, TiDB Lightning pauses scheduling for the Region that stores the target table data. If the target cluster version is earlier than v6.1.0, an error occurs. In this case, you can change the value of the parameter to `"global"` and try again.**tw:hfxsd**
```

    If you have upgraded TiFlash to v7.1.0, then during the TiDB upgrade to v7.1.0, TiDB cannot read the TiFlash system tables ([`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIFLASH_TABLES`](/information-schema/information-schema-tiflash-tables.md) and [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIFLASH_SEGMENTS`](/information-schema/information-schema-tiflash-segments.md)).

> * TiDB Lightning in TiDB versions from v6.2.0 to v7.0.0 decides whether to pause global scheduling based on the TiDB cluster version. When TiDB cluster version >= v6.1.0, scheduling is only paused for the Region that stores the target table data and is resumed after the target table import is complete. While for other versions, TiDB Lightning pauses global scheduling. Starting from TiDB v7.1.0, you can control whether to pause global scheduling by configuring [`pause-pd-scheduler-scope`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md). By default, TiDB Lightning pauses scheduling for the Region that stores the target table data. If the target cluster version is earlier than v6.1.0, an error occurs. In this case, you can change the value of the parameter to `"global"` and try again.

Author: ```suggestion
* TiDB Lightning in TiDB versions from v6.2.0 to v7.0.0 decides whether to pause global scheduling based on the TiDB cluster version. When TiDB cluster version >= v6.1.0, scheduling is only paused for the Region that stores the target table data and is resumed after the target table import is complete. While for other versions, TiDB Lightning pauses global scheduling. Starting from TiDB v7.1.0, you can control whether to pause global scheduling by configuring [`pause-pd-scheduler-scope`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md). By default, TiDB Lightning pauses scheduling for the Region that stores the target table data. If the target cluster version is earlier than v6.1.0, an error occurs. In this case, you can change the value of the parameter to `"global"` and try again.

* When you use [`FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-to-timestamp.md) in TiDB v7.1.0, some Regions might remain in the FLASHBACK process even after the completion of the FLASHBACK operation. It is recommended to avoid using this feature in v7.1.0. For more information, see issue [#44292](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44292). If you have encountered this issue, you can use the [TiDB snapshot backup and restore](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md) feature to restore data.
```
@qiancai PTAL

Reviewer 4: LGTM

| [`authentication_ldap_simple_server_port`](/system-variables.md#authentication_ldap_simple_server_port-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Specifies the LDAP server TCP/IP port number in LDAP simple authentication. |
| [`authentication_ldap_simple_tls`](/system-variables.md#authentication_ldap_simple_tls-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Specifies whether connections by the plugin to the LDAP server are protected with StartTLS in LDAP simple authentication. |
| [`tidb_enable_dist_task`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_dist_task-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the distributed execution framework. After enabling distributed execution, DDL, import, and other supported backend tasks will be jointly completed by multiple TiDB nodes in the cluster. This variable was renamed from `tidb_ddl_distribute_reorg`. |
| [`tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache_for_dml`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache_for_dml-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the [Non-prepared plan cache](/sql-non-prepared-plan-cache.md) feature for DML statements. |

> | [`tidb_enable_row_level_checksum`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_row_level_checksum--new-in-v710) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the TiCDC data integrity validation for single-row data feature.|

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_enable_row_level_checksum`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_row_level_checksum-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the TiCDC data integrity validation for single-row data feature.|
```

* In the outputs of [`SHOW LOAD DATA`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-load-data.md), the `Loaded_File_Size` parameter is deprecated and replaced with the `Imported_Rows` parameter.

> * TiDB v6.2.0 ~ v7.0.0 版本的 `tidb-lightning` 会根据 TiDB 集群的版本决定是否暂停全局调度。当 TiDB 集群版本 >= v6.1.0，只会暂停目标表数据范围所在 Region 的调度，并在目标表导入完成后恢复调度，其他版本会暂停全局调度。自 TiDB v7.1.0 开始，你可以通过 [pause-pd-scheduler-scope](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) 来控制是否暂停全局调度，默认暂停目标表数据范围所在 Region 的调度，如果目标集群版本低于 v6.1.0 则报错，此时将参数取值改为 `"global"` 后重试即可。**tw:hfxsd**

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* TiDB Lightning in TiDB versions from v6.2.0 to v7.0.0 decides whether to pause global scheduling based on the TiDB cluster version. When TiDB cluster version >= v6.1.0, scheduling is only paused for the Region where the target table data range is located and resumes after the target table import is complete. While for other versions, TiDB Lightning pauses global scheduling. Starting from TiDB v7.1.0, you can control whether to pause global scheduling by [`pause-pd-scheduler-scope`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md). By default, TiDB Lightning pauses scheduling for the Region where the target table data range is located. If the target cluster version is earlier than v6.1.0, an error occurs. In this case you can change the value of the parameter to `"global"` and try again.**tw:hfxsd**
```

    If you have upgraded TiFlash to v7.1.0, then during the TiDB upgrade to v7.1.0, TiDB cannot read the TiFlash system tables ([`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIFLASH_TABLES`](/information-schema/information-schema-tiflash-tables.md) and [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIFLASH_SEGMENTS`](/information-schema/information-schema-tiflash-segments.md)).

> * TiDB Lightning in TiDB versions from v6.2.0 to v7.0.0 decides whether to pause global scheduling based on the TiDB cluster version. When TiDB cluster version >= v6.1.0, scheduling is only paused for the Region that stores the target table data and resumes after the target table import is complete. While for other versions, TiDB Lightning pauses global scheduling. Starting from TiDB v7.1.0, you can control whether to pause global scheduling by [`pause-pd-scheduler-scope`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md). By default, TiDB Lightning pauses scheduling for the Region that stores the target table data. If the target cluster version is earlier than v6.1.0, an error occurs. In this case, you can change the value of the parameter to `"global"` and try again.**tw:hfxsd**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* TiDB Lightning in TiDB versions from v6.2.0 to v7.0.0 decides whether to pause global scheduling based on the TiDB cluster version. When TiDB cluster version >= v6.1.0, scheduling is only paused for the Region that stores the target table data and is resumed after the target table import is complete. While for other versions, TiDB Lightning pauses global scheduling. Starting from TiDB v7.1.0, you can control whether to pause global scheduling by configuring [`pause-pd-scheduler-scope`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md). By default, TiDB Lightning pauses scheduling for the Region that stores the target table data. If the target cluster version is earlier than v6.1.0, an error occurs. In this case, you can change the value of the parameter to `"global"` and try again.**tw:hfxsd**
```

* In the outputs of [`SHOW LOAD DATA`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-load-data.md), the `Loaded_File_Size` parameter is deprecated and replaced with the `Imported_Rows` parameter.

> * TiDB Lightning in TiDB versions from v6.2.0 to v7.0.0 decides whether to pause global scheduling based on the TiDB cluster version. When TiDB cluster version >= v6.1.0, scheduling is only paused for the Region where the target table data range is located and resumes after the target table import is complete. While for other versions, TiDB Lightning pauses global scheduling. Starting from TiDB v7.1.0, you can control whether to pause global scheduling by [`pause-pd-scheduler-scope`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md). By default, TiDB Lightning pauses scheduling for the Region where the target table data range is located. If the target cluster version is earlier than v6.1.0, an error occurs. In this case you can change the value of the parameter to `"global"` and try again.**tw:hfxsd**

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* TiDB Lightning in TiDB versions from v6.2.0 to v7.0.0 decides whether to pause global scheduling based on the TiDB cluster version. When TiDB cluster version >= v6.1.0, scheduling is only paused for the Region that stores the target table data and resumes after the target table import is complete. While for other versions, TiDB Lightning pauses global scheduling. Starting from TiDB v7.1.0, you can control whether to pause global scheduling by [`pause-pd-scheduler-scope`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md). By default, TiDB Lightning pauses scheduling for the Region that stores the target table data. If the target cluster version is earlier than v6.1.0, an error occurs. In this case you can change the value of the parameter to `"global"` and try again.**tw:hfxsd**
```

| [`authentication_ldap_sasl_bind_base_dn`](/system-variables.md#authentication_ldap_sasl_bind_base_dn-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Limits the search scope within the search tree in LDAP SASL authentication. If a user is created without `AS ...` clause, TiDB automatically searches the `dn` in LDAP server according to the user name. |
| [`authentication_ldap_sasl_bind_root_dn`](/system-variables.md#authentication_ldap_sasl_bind_root_dn-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Specifies the `dn` used to login to the LDAP server to search users in LDAP SASL authentication. |
| [`authentication_ldap_sasl_bind_root_pwd`](/system-variables.md#authentication_ldap_sasl_bind_root_pwd-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Specifies the password used to login to the LDAP server to search users in LDAP SASL authentication. |
| [`authentication_ldap_sasl_ca_path`](/system-variables.md#authentication_ldap_sasl_ca_path-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Specifies the absolute path of the certificate authority file for StartTLS connections in LDAP SASL authentication. |

> | [`authentication_ldap_sasl_init_pool_size`](/system-variables.md#authentication_ldap_sasl_init_pool_size-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Specifies the initial size of the pool of connections to the LDAP server in LDAP SASL authentication. |
> | [`authentication_ldap_sasl_max_pool_size`](/system-variables.md#authentication_ldap_sasl_max_pool_size-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Specifies the maximum size of the pool of connections to the LDAP server in LDAP SASL authentication. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`authentication_ldap_sasl_init_pool_size`](/system-variables.md#authentication_ldap_sasl_init_pool_size-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Specifies the initial connections in the connection pool to the LDAP server in LDAP SASL authentication. |
| [`authentication_ldap_sasl_max_pool_size`](/system-variables.md#authentication_ldap_sasl_max_pool_size-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Specifies the maximum connections in the connection pool to the LDAP server in LDAP SASL authentication. |
```

| [`authentication_ldap_simple_bind_base_dn`](/system-variables.md#authentication_ldap_simple_bind_base_dn-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Limits the search scope within the search tree in LDAP simple authentication. If a user is created without `AS ...` clause, TiDB will automatically search the `dn` in LDAP server according to the user name. |
| [`authentication_ldap_simple_bind_root_dn`](/system-variables.md#authentication_ldap_simple_bind_root_dn-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Specifies the `dn` used to login to the LDAP server to search users in LDAP simple authentication. |
| [`authentication_ldap_simple_bind_root_pwd`](/system-variables.md#authentication_ldap_simple_bind_root_pwd-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Specifies the password used to login to the LDAP server to search users in LDAP simple authentication. |
| [`authentication_ldap_simple_ca_path`](/system-variables.md#authentication_ldap_simple_ca_path-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Specifies the absolute path of the certificate authority file for StartTLS connections in LDAP simple authentication. |

> | [`authentication_ldap_simple_init_pool_size`](/system-variables.md#authentication_ldap_simple_init_pool_size-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Specifies the initial size of the pool of connections to the LDAP server in LDAP simple authentication. |
> | [`authentication_ldap_simple_max_pool_size`](/system-variables.md#authentication_ldap_simple_max_pool_size-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Specifies the maximum size of the pool of connections to the LDAP server in LDAP simple authentication. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`authentication_ldap_simple_init_pool_size`](/system-variables.md#authentication_ldap_simple_init_pool_size-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Specifies the initial connections in the connection pool to the LDAP server in LDAP simple authentication. |
| [`authentication_ldap_simple_max_pool_size`](/system-variables.md#authentication_ldap_simple_max_pool_size-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Specifies the maximum connections in the connection pool to the LDAP server in LDAP simple authentication. |
```

| [`tidb_non_prepared_plan_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_non_prepared_plan_cache_size) | Deprecated | Starting from v7.1.0, this system variable is deprecated. You can use [`tidb_session_plan_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_session_plan_cache_size-new-in-v710) to control the maximum number of plans that can be cached. |
| [`tidb_prepared_plan_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_prepared_plan_cache_size-new-in-v610) | Deprecated | Starting from v7.1.0, this system variable is deprecated. You can use [`tidb_session_plan_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_session_plan_cache_size-new-in-v710) to control the maximum number of plans that can be cached. |
| `tidb_ddl_distribute_reorg` | Deleted | This variable is renamed to [`tidb_enable_dist_task`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_dist_task-new-in-v710). |

> | [`default_authentication_plugin`](/system-variables.md#default_authentication_plugin) | Modified | Introduces two new value options: `authentication_ldap_sasl` and `authentication_ldap_simpl`. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`default_authentication_plugin`](/system-variables.md#default_authentication_plugin) | Modified | Introduces two new value options: `authentication_ldap_sasl` and `authentication_ldap_simple`. |
```

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | [`force-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#force-init-stats-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Controls whether to wait for statistics initialization to finish before providing services during TiDB startup. |
| TiDB | [`lite-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#lite-init-stats-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Controls whether to use lightweight statistics initialization during TiDB startup. |
| PD | [`store-limit-version`](/pd-configuration-file.md#store-limit-version-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Controls the mode of store limit. Value options are `"v1"` and `"v2"`. |
| TiFlash | `http_port` | Deleted | Deprecates the HTTP service port (default `8123`). |

> | TiDB Lightning | [`tikv-importer.pause-pd-scheduler-scope`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) | Newly added | Controls the scope in which TiDB Lightning stops PD scheduling. The default value is `"table"` and value options are `"cluster"` and `"table"`. |
> | TiDB Lightning | [`tikv-importer.region-check-backoff-limit`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) | Newly added | Controls the number of retries to wait for the Region to come online after the split and scatter operations. The default value is `1800` and the maximum retry interval is two seconds. The number of retries will not be increased if any Region becomes online between retries.|
> | TiDB Lightning | [`tikv-importer.region-split-batch-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) | Newly added | Controls the number of Regions when splitting Regions in a batch. The default value is `4096`. |
> | TiDB Lightning | [`tikv-importer.region-split-concurrency`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) | Newly added | Controls the concurrency when splitting Regions. The default value is the number of CPU cores. |

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| TiDB Lightning | [`tikv-importer.pause-pd-scheduler-scope`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) | Newly added | Controls the scope in which TiDB Lightning pauses PD scheduling. The default value is `"table"` and value options are `"cluster"` and `"table"`. |
| TiDB Lightning | [`tikv-importer.region-check-backoff-limit`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) | Newly added | Controls the number of retries to wait for the Region to come online after the split and scatter operations. The default value is `1800`. The maximum retry interval is two seconds. The number of retries is increased if any Region becomes online between retries.|
| TiDB Lightning | [`tikv-importer.region-split-batch-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) | Newly added | Controls the number of Regions when splitting Regions in a batch. The default value is `4096`. |
| TiDB Lightning | [`tikv-importer.region-split-concurrency`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) | Newly added | Controls the concurrency when splitting Regions. The default value is the number of CPU cores. |
```

| TiCDC | [`integrity.corruption-handle-level`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md#cli-and-configuration-parameters-of-ticdc-changefeeds) | Newly added | Specifies the log level of the Changefeed when the checksum validation for single-row data fails. The default value is `"warn"`. Value options are `"warn"` and `"error"`. |
| TiCDC | [`integrity.integrity-check-level`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md#cli-and-configuration-parameters-of-ticdc-changefeeds) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the checksum validation for single-row data. The default value is `"none"`, which means to disable the feature. |
| TiCDC | [`sink.enable-partition-separator`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md#cli-and-configuration-parameters-of-ticdc-changefeeds) | Modified | Changes the default value from `false` to `true` after further tests, meaning that partitions in a table are stored in separate directories by default. It is recommended that you keep the value as `true` to avoid the potential issue of data loss during replication of partitioned tables to storage services. |

> 

Author: ```suggestion

### Others

When you use [`FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-to-timestamp.md) in TiDB v7.1.0, some Regions might not be restored after the FLASHBACK operation. It is recommended to avoid using this feature in v7.1.0. For more information, see issue [#44292](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44292). If you have encountered this issue, you can use the [TiDB snapshot backup and restore](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md) feature to restore data.

```
@Defined2014 @bb7133 @qiancai PTAL

Reviewer 7: LGTM

Author: https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/13484/files#r1211181184

    - Support optimizing query performance in Semi Join or Anti Semi Join by selecting the smaller table as the build side [#7280](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7280) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - Improve performance of data import from BR and TiDB Lightning to TiFlash with default configurations [#7272](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7272) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Support modifying the TiKV configuration item `log-backup.max-flush-interval` during log backup [#14433](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14433) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)

    + TiCDC

        - Optimize the directory structure when DDL events occur in the scenario of replicating data to object storage [#8890](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8890) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Optimize the method of setting GC TLS for the upstream when the TiCDC replication task fails [#8403](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8403) @[charleszheng44](https://github.com/charleszheng44)

>         - Support replicating data to the Kakfa-on-Pulsar downstream [#8892](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8892) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Support replicating data to the Kafka-on-Pulsar downstream [#8892](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8892) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
```

    - Fix the issue that the replication status cannot be switched when there are learner nodes in the replication mode [#14704](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14704) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that querying data in the `TIMESTAMP` or `TIME` type returns errors after enabling late materialization [#7455](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7455) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - Fix the issue that large update transactions might cause TiFlash to repeatedly report errors and restart [#7316](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7316) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix the issue of backup slowdown when a TiKV node crashes in a cluster [#42973](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42973) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Fix the issue of inaccurate error messages caused by a backup failure in some cases [#43236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43236) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

    + TiCDC

>         - Fix the issue of TiCDC timezone setting [#8798](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8798) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue of TiCDC time zone setting [#8798](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8798) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
```

        - Fix the issue of excessive `keys within region is empty, skip doIngest` logs during data import [#43197](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43197) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
        - Fix the issue that panic might occur during partial write [#43363](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43363) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that OOM might occur when importing a wide table [#43728](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43728) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
        - Fix the issue of missing data in the TiDB Lightning Grafana dashboard [#43357](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43357) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)
        - Fix the import failure due to incorrect setting of `keyspace-name` [#43684](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43684) @[zeminzhou](https://github.com/zeminzhou)
        - Fix the issue that data import might be skipped during range partial write in some cases [#43768](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43768) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

## Performance test

> To learn about the performance of TiDB v7.1.0, you can refer to the [TPC-C performance test report](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/v7.1.0-performance-benchmarking-with-tpcc) of the TiDB Dedicated cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
To learn about the performance of TiDB v7.1.0, you can refer to the [TPC-C performance test report](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/v7.1.0-performance-benchmarking-with-tpcc) of the TiDB Cloud Dedicated cluster.
```
@qiancai PTAL

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | [`force-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#force-init-stats-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Controls whether to wait for statistics initialization to finish before providing services during TiDB startup. |
| TiDB | [`lite-init-stats`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#lite-init-stats-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Controls whether to use lightweight statistics initialization during TiDB startup. |
| PD | [`store-limit-version`](/pd-configuration-file.md#store-limit-version-new-in-v710) | Newly added | Controls the mode of store limit. Value options are `"v1"` and `"v2"`. |
| TiFlash | `http_port` | Deleted | Deprecates the HTTP service port (default `8123`). |

> | TiDB Lightning | [`tikv-importer.pause-pd-scheduler-scope`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) | Newly added | Controls the scope in which TiDB Lightning pauses PD scheduling. The default value is `"table"` and value options are `"cluster"` and `"table"`. |

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| TiDB Lightning | [`tikv-importer.pause-pd-scheduler-scope`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) | Newly added | Controls the scope in which TiDB Lightning pauses PD scheduling. The default value is `"table"` and value options are `"global"` and `"table"`. |
```

| TiDB Lightning | [`tikv-importer.region-split-batch-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) | Newly added | Controls the number of Regions when splitting Regions in a batch. The default value is `4096`. |
| TiDB Lightning | [`tikv-importer.region-split-concurrency`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) | Newly added | Controls the concurrency when splitting Regions. The default value is the number of CPU cores. |
| TiCDC | [`sink.enable-partition-separator`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md#cli-and-configuration-parameters-of-ticdc-changefeeds) | Modified | Changes the default value from `false` to `true` after further tests, meaning that partitions in a table are stored in separate directories by default. It is recommended that you keep the value as `true` to avoid the potential issue of data loss during replication of partitioned tables to storage services. |

> 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`optimize-filters-for-memory`](/tikv-configuration-file.md) | Newly added | Option to generate Bloom/Ribbon filters that minimize memory internal fragmentation. |
| TiKV | [`ribbon-filter-above-level`](/tikv-configuration-file.md) | Newly added | Use Ribbon filter for levels higher or equal to this value. Use non-block-based bloom filter for lower levels. When this is set, `block-based-bloom-filter` will be ignored. |

```

| TiCDC | [`integrity.corruption-handle-level`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md#cli-and-configuration-parameters-of-ticdc-changefeeds) | Newly added | Specifies the log level of the Changefeed when the checksum validation for single-row data fails. The default value is `"warn"`. Value options are `"warn"` and `"error"`. |
| TiCDC | [`integrity.integrity-check-level`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md#cli-and-configuration-parameters-of-ticdc-changefeeds) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the checksum validation for single-row data. The default value is `"none"`, which means to disable the feature. |
| TiCDC | [`sink.enable-partition-separator`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md#cli-and-configuration-parameters-of-ticdc-changefeeds) | Modified | Changes the default value from `false` to `true` after further tests, meaning that partitions in a table are stored in separate directories by default. It is recommended that you keep the value as `true` to avoid the potential issue of data loss during replication of partitioned tables to storage services. |

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

>     - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    - Push down sort property to range partition table [#26166](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26166) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

    - Improve TiFlash performance and stability in the disaggregated storage and compute architecture [#6882](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6882)  @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - Support optimizing query performance in Semi Join or Anti Semi Join by selecting the smaller table as the build side [#7280](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7280) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiCDC

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiUP

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

>     - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    - Fix incompatible behaviors between Prepared and Non-Prepared Plan Cache [#42439](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42439) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix wrong results for Decimal data types in Plan Cache [#43311](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43311) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix TiDB panic in NAAJ due to wrong field type check [#42459](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42459) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
```

    - Fix the issue that allocating ID for AUTO_INCREMENT column will be blocked for a long time when PD member address changes [#42643](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42643) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue of `GC lifetime is shorter than transaction duration` error during DDL execution [#40074](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40074) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that metadata locks unexpectedly block the execution of DDL [#43755](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43755) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - Fix the issue that some system views cannot be queried in an IPv6 environment [#43286](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43286) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
  <!-- **tw:qiancai** (16) -->
    - Fix the issue of new rows being written to the wrong partition during the add or coalesce partition process [#43892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43892) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

>     - Fix the issue of not finding the partition during the inner join dynamic pruning [#43686](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43686) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of not finding the partition during inner join in dynamic pruning mode [#43686](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43686) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
```

>     - Fix the issue of syntax error when analyzing the table [#43392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43392) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiDB reports syntax errors when analyzing tables [#43392](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43392) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiCDC might lose some row changes during table renaming [#43338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43338) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

>     - Fix the issue that TiDB crashes when the client uses cursor reads [#38116](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38116) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiDB server crashes when the client uses cursor reads [#38116](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38116) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
```

    - Fix the issue that `ADMIN SHOW DDL JOBS LIMIT` returns incorrect results [#42298](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42298) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)

>     - Fix the issue that TiDB crashes when querying union views and temporary tables with UNION [#42563](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42563) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the TiDB panic issue that occurs when querying union views and temporary tables with UNION [#42563](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42563) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiDB server crashes when the client uses cursor reads [#38116](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38116) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that `ADMIN SHOW DDL JOBS LIMIT` returns incorrect results [#42298](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42298) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - Fix the TiDB panic issue that occurs when querying union views and temporary tables with UNION [#42563](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42563) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - Fix the issue that renaming tables does not take effect when committing multiple statements in a transaction [#39664](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39664) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the incompatibility issue between the behavior of prepared plan cache and non-prepared plan cache during time conversion [#42439](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42439) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the wrong results caused by plan cache for Decimal type [#43311](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43311) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

>     - Fix the TiDB panic issue in NAAJ due to wrong field type check [#42459](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42459) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the TiDB panic issue in NAAJ due to the wrong field type check [#42459](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42459) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
```

    - Solve the problem that DDL tasks triggered on this node will be cancelled after TiDB node is normally shutdown [#43854](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43854) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
    - Fix the issue that allocating ID for AUTO_INCREMENT column will be blocked for a long time when PD member address changes [#42643](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42643) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue of `GC lifetime is shorter than transaction duration` error during DDL execution [#40074](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40074) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that metadata locks unexpectedly block the execution of DDL [#43755](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43755) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - Fix the issue that some system views cannot be queried in an IPv6 environment [#43286](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43286) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
  <!-- **tw:qiancai** (16) -->

>     - Fix the issue of new rows being written to the wrong partition during the add or coalesce partition process [#43892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43892) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix the wrong results caused by plan cache for Decimal type [#43311](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43311) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the TiDB panic issue in NAAJ due to wrong field type check [#42459](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42459) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that DML execution failures in pessimistic transactions at the RC isolation level might cause inconsistency between data and indexes [#43294](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43294) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)
    - Fix the issue that in some extreme cases, retrying the first statement of a pessimistic transaction might affect transaction correctness when resolving locks on this transaction [#42937](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42937) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)
    - Fix the issue that in some rare cases, residual pessimistic locks of pessimistic transactions might affect data correctness when GC resolves locks [#43243](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43243) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)

>     - Fix the issue that the LOCK to PUT optimization leads to duplicate data being returned in specific queries [#28011](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28011) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `LOCK` to `PUT` optimization leads to duplicate data being returned in specific queries [#28011](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28011) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
```

    + TiCDC
      <!-- **tw:qiancai** (6) -->
        - Fix related issues when setting timezone [#8798](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8798) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC cannot automatically recover when PD address or leader fails [#8812](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8812) [#8877](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8877) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Fix the issue of rising checkpoint lag when upstream tikv node crashes [#8858](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8858) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
        - Fix the issue that the exchange partition in the upstream cannot be properly synchronized to the downstream in the scenario of synchronizing to object storage [#8914](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8914) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Fix the OOM issue caused by excessive memory usage of the sorter component in some special scenarios [#8974](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8974) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

>         - Fix the issue of CDC node panic when downstream Kafka is rolling restarted [#9023](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9023) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Fix the TiCDC node panic that occurs when the downstream Kafka sinks are rolling restarted [#9023](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9023) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - (dup) Fix the issue that latin1 data might be corrupted during replication [#7028](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7028) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

    + TiDB Dumpling

        - 修复 Unsigned Integer 类型的主键无法用于拆分 Chunk 的问题 [#42620](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42620) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)
        - 修复当未正确设置 `--output-file-template` 时可能 panic 的问题 [#42391](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42391) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)

    + TiDB Binlog

        - 修复当遇到失败的 DDL 语句时可能报错的问题 [#1228](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/1228] @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
        
```

| TiCDC | [`integrity.corruption-handle-level`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md#cli-and-configuration-parameters-of-ticdc-changefeeds) | Newly added | Specifies the log level of the Changefeed when the checksum validation for single-row data fails. The default value is `"warn"`. Value options are `"warn"` and `"error"`. |
| TiCDC | [`integrity.integrity-check-level`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md#cli-and-configuration-parameters-of-ticdc-changefeeds) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the checksum validation for single-row data. The default value is `"none"`, which means to disable the feature. |
| TiCDC | [`sink.enable-partition-separator`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md#cli-and-configuration-parameters-of-ticdc-changefeeds) | Modified | Changes the default value from `false` to `true` after further tests, meaning that partitions in a table are stored in separate directories by default. It is recommended that you keep the value as `true` to avoid the potential issue of data loss during replication of partitioned tables to storage services. |

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

## 废弃功能

TiDB 计划在未来版本废弃[乐观事务模式](/optimistic-transaction.md)。从 v7.1.0 开始，不推荐设置 [`tidb_txn_mode`](/system-variables.md#tidb_txn_mode) 的值为 `"optimistic"` 或 `""`。

```

## Improvements

+ TiDB

  <!-- **tw:hfxsd** (5) -->

    - Support to use `SQL_NO_CACHE` to prevent TTL Scan queries from impacting the TiKV block cache [#43206](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43206) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

>     - Improve the MySQL compatibility of error messages related to `MAX_EXECUTION_TIME` [#43031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43031) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Improve an error message related to `MAX_EXECUTION_TIME` to make it compatible with MySQL [#43031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43031) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
```

    - The Cardinality column in the `SHOW INDEX` result can display the number of distinct values in the corresponding column in the statistics [#42227](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42227) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

>     - Push down sort property to range partition table [#26166](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26166) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
>     - Enhance compatibility with MySQL implementation when using caching_sha2_password [#43576](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43576) @[asjdf](https://github.com/asjdf)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Support using the MergeSort operator on partitioned tables in IndexLookUp [#26166](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26166) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Enhance `caching_sha2_password` to make it compatible with MySQL [#43576](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43576) @[asjdf](https://github.com/asjdf)
```

    - Added a leader health check mechanism. When the PD server where the etcd leader is located cannot be elected as the leader, it actively switches the etcd leader to ensure the availability of the PD leader [#6403](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6403) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)

+ TiFlash

    - Improve TiFlash performance and stability in the disaggregated storage and compute architecture [#6882](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6882) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - Support optimizing query performance in Semi Join or Anti Semi Join by selecting the smaller table as the build side [#7280](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7280) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - (dup) Improve performance of data import from BR and TiDB Lightning to TiFlash with default configurations [#7272](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7272) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)
      <!-- **tw:hfxsd** (1) -->

>         - Support for online modification of `tikv.log-backup.max-flush-interval` configuration [#14433](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14433) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Support modifying the `tikv.log-backup.max-flush-interval` configuration item when backing up logs [#14433](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14433) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)
```

        - Optimized the method of setting GC TLS for upstream when CDC's synchronization task fails [#8403](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8403) @[charleszheng44](https://github.com/charleszheng44)
        - Added support for synchronization to KOP downstream [#8892](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8892) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
        - When synchronizing to Kafka, it supports using the open-protocol protocol to only synchronize columns that have changed when an update occurs [#8706](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8706) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - Optimized the way CDC handles errors when downstream faults and other scenarios occur [#8657](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8657) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
        - Added a configuration to control whether to set the authentication algorithm in the scenario of enabling TLS [#8867](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8867) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

    + TiDB Lightning
      <!-- **tw:hfxsd** (3) -->

>         - Change the Region distribution precheck item from Critical to Warn [#42836](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42836) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
>         - Add retry for unknown RPC errors during import [#43291](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43291) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
>         - Enhance Region job retry [#43682](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43682) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Change the severity level of the precheck item related to uneven distribution of regions from `Critical` to `Warn` to avoid blocking users from importing data [#42836](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42836) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
        - Add retry after unknown RPC errors occur during data import [#43291](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43291) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
        - Enhance a retry mechanism for region jobs [#43682](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43682) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

    - Fix the issue that in some extreme cases, retrying the first statement of a pessimistic transaction might affect transaction correctness when resolving locks on this transaction [#42937](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42937) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)
    - Fix the issue that in some rare cases, residual pessimistic locks of pessimistic transactions might affect data correctness when GC resolves locks [#43243](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43243) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)
    - Fix the issue that the `LOCK` to `PUT` optimization leads to duplicate data being returned in specific queries [#28011](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28011) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - Fix the issue that when data is changed, the locking behavior of the unique index is not consistent with that when the data is unchanged [#36438](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36438) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)

+ TiKV

  <!-- **tw:hfxsd** (6) -->

>     - Fix the issue where under some extreme conditions, retrying failed RPC with `tidb_pessimistic_txn_fair_locking` enabled could potentially affect data correctness due to expired requests [#14551](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14551) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)
>     - Fix the issue where a conflict of encryption Key ID can lead to the deletion of an old Key [#14585](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14585) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)
>     - Fix the performance issue brought by accumulated lock records when the cluster is upgraded from a previous version to v6.5 or higher [#14780](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14780) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)
>     - Fix the `raft entry is too large` issue during the PITR recovery process @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
>     - Fix the issue of TiKV panicking due to log_batch exceeding 2G during the PITR recovery process @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
>     - Fix the issue of correctness caused by replaying pessimistic lock requests @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that when you enable `tidb_pessimistic_txn_fair_locking`, in some extreme cases, expired requests caused by failed RPC retries might affect data correctness during the resolve lock operation [#14551](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14551) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)
    - Fix the issue that conflicting encrypted key IDs cause old keys to be deleted [#14585](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14585) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)
    - Fix the performance issue caused by accumulated lock records when the cluster is upgraded from a previous version to v6.5 or later versions [#14780](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14780) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)
    - Fix the issue that the `raft entry is too large` error occurs during the PITR recovery process [#14313](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14313) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
    - Fix the TiKV panic issue that occurs when the buffer size in `log_batch` exceeds 2 GB during the PITR recovery process [#13848](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13848) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

    - Fix the issue where Rule checker cannot repair unhealthy Region with label `schedule=deny` [#6426](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6426) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - Fix the issue where some existing labels are lost after TiKV/TiFlash restart [#6467](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6467) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)
    - Fix the issue where the state cannot be switched when there are learner nodes in the replication mode [#14704](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14704) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)

+ TiFlash

  <!-- **tw:qiancai** (2) -->

    - Fix the issue that querying data in the TIMESTAMP or TIME type returns errors after enabling late materialization [#7455](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7455) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - Fix the issue that large update transactions might cause TiFlash to repeatedly report errors and restart [#7316](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7316) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)
      <!-- **tw:hfxsd** (2)-->

>         - Fix the issue of backup slowness when TiKV in the cluster is down [#42973](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42973) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
>         - Fix the issue of backup failure and missing error information in some cases [#43236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43236) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue of slow backup when TiKV is down in a cluster [#42973](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42973) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Fix the issue of inaccurate error information caused by backup failure in some cases [#43236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43236) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

        - Fix the TiCDC node panic that occurs when the downstream Kafka sinks are rolling restarted [#9023](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9023) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - (dup) Fix the issue that latin1 data might be corrupted during replication [#7028](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7028) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

    + TiDB Dumpling

        - Fix the issue that primary keys of Unsigned Integer type cannot be used for splitting chunks [#42620](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42620) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)
        - Fix the issue that panic might occur when `--output-file-template` is incorrectly set [#42391](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42391) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)

    + TiDB Binlog

        - Fix the issue that an error might occur when a DDL statement fails [#1228](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/1228] @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
        
    + TiDB Lightning
      <!-- **tw:hfxsd** (8)-->

>         - Fix the performance degradation issue during Lightning import [#42456](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42456) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
>         - Fix the error of `write to tikv with no leader returned` during the import of large amounts of data [#43055](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43055) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
>         - Fix the issue of excessive output of `keys within region is empty, skip doIngest` logs during import [#43197](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43197) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
>         - Fix the issue that range part writing might panic [#43363](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43363) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
>         - Fix the issue of possible OOM when importing wide tables [#43728](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43728) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
>         - Fix the issue of missing data in Lightning Grafana panel [#43357](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43357) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)
>         - Fix the issue of import failure due to incorrect setting of keyspace name [#43684](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43684) @[zeminzhou](https://github.com/zeminzhou)
>         - Fix the issue of skipping data import in certain situations when range part is written [#43768](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43768) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix the performance degradation issue during data import [#42456](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42456) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue of `write to tikv with no leader returned` when  importing a large amount of data [#43055](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43055) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that too many `keys within region is empty, skip doIngest` logs are output during data import [#43197](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43197) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
        - Fix the issue that panic might occur during partial write [#43363](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43363) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that OOM  might occur when importing wide tables [#43728](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43728) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
        - Fix the issue of missing data in the TiDB Lightning Grafana panel [#43357](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43357) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)
        - Fix the issue of import failure due to incorrect setting of keyspace names [#43684](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43684) @[zeminzhou](https://github.com/zeminzhou)
        - Fix the issue of skipping data import in certain situations during partial write [#43768](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43768) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

    - Fix the issue of incorrect results returned when querying partitioned tables using order by and limit [#43158](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43158) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue of multiple DDL tasks using injest method running at the same time [#42903](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42903) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - (dup) Fix the wrong value returned when querying a partitioned table using `Limit` [#24636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24636)
    - Fix the issue of incorrect TiDB address display in IPv6 environment [#43260](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43260) @[nexustar](https://github.com/nexustar)
    - Fix the issue of incorrect display of system variables `tidb_enable_tiflash_read_for_write_stmt` and `tidb_enable_exchange_partition` [#43281](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43281) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - Fix the issue of `Header read timeout` error when the proxy protocol handles certain error data [#43205](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43205) @[blacktear23](https://github.com/blacktear23)

>     - Fix the issue that no automatic split Region after truncating a partition when `tidb_scatter_region` is enabled [#43174](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43174) [#43028](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43028) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
>     - Add some checks on the table with generated columns, and error out for some unsupported DDL operations on columns [#38988](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38988) [#24321](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24321) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
>     - Fix the issue that the error message is not correct when some type conversion errors occur [#41730](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41730) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that when `tidb_scatter_region` is enabled, Region does not automatically split after a partition is truncated [#43174](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43174) [#43028](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43028) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
    - Add checks on the table with generated columns and report errors for DDL operations on unsupported columns [#38988](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38988) [#24321](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24321) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue that the error message is incorrect in certain type conversion errors [#41730](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41730) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
```

>     - Solve the problem that DDL tasks triggered on this node will be cancelled after TiDB node is normally shutdown [#43854](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43854) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
>     - Fix the issue that allocating ID for AUTO_INCREMENT column will be blocked for a long time when PD member address changes [#42643](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42643) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
>     - Fix the issue of `GC lifetime is shorter than transaction duration` error during DDL execution [#40074](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40074) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - Fix the issue that metadata locks unexpectedly block the execution of DDL [#43755](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43755) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
>     - Fix the issue that some system views cannot be queried in an IPv6 environment [#43286](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43286) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that after a TiDB node is normally shutdown, DDL tasks triggered on this node will be canceled [#43854](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43854) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
    - Fix the issue that when the PD member address changes, allocating ID for the `AUTO_INCREMENT` column will be blocked for a long time [#42643](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42643) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue of the `GC lifetime is shorter than transaction duration` error during DDL execution [#40074](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40074) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that metadata locks unexpectedly block the DDL execution [#43755](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43755) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - Fix the issue that the cluster cannot query some system views in IPv6 environment [#43286](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43286) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

| TiDB Lightning | [`tikv-importer.pause-pd-scheduler-scope`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) | Newly added | Controls the scope in which TiDB Lightning pauses PD scheduling. The default value is `"table"` and value options are `"global"` and `"table"`. |
| TiDB Lightning | [`tikv-importer.region-check-backoff-limit`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) | Newly added | Controls the number of retries to wait for the Region to come online after the split and scatter operations. The default value is `1800`. The maximum retry interval is two seconds. The number of retries is increased if any Region becomes online between retries.|
| TiDB Lightning | [`tikv-importer.region-split-batch-size`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) | Newly added | Controls the number of Regions when splitting Regions in a batch. The default value is `4096`. |
| TiDB Lightning | [`tikv-importer.region-split-concurrency`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) | Newly added | Controls the concurrency when splitting Regions. The default value is the number of CPU cores. |

> | TiCDC | [`integrity.corruption-handle-level`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md#cli-and-configuration-parameters-of-ticdc-changefeeds) | Newly added | Specifies the log level of the Changefeed when the checksum validation for single-row data fails. The default value is `"warn"`. Value options are `"warn"` and `"error"`. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| TiCDC | [`insecure-skip-verify`](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md) | Newly added | Control whether the authentication algorithm is set when TLS is enabled in the scenario of replicating data to Kafka. |
| TiCDC | [`integrity.corruption-handle-level`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md#cli-and-configuration-parameters-of-ticdc-changefeeds) | Newly added | Specifies the log level of the Changefeed when the checksum validation for single-row data fails. The default value is `"warn"`. Value options are `"warn"` and `"error"`. |
```

| TiCDC | [`integrity.integrity-check-level`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md#cli-and-configuration-parameters-of-ticdc-changefeeds) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the checksum validation for single-row data. The default value is `"none"`, which means to disable the feature. |
| TiCDC | [`sink.enable-partition-separator`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md#cli-and-configuration-parameters-of-ticdc-changefeeds) | Modified | Changes the default value from `false` to `true` after further tests, meaning that partitions in a table are stored in separate directories by default. It is recommended that you keep the value as `true` to avoid the potential issue of data loss during replication of partitioned tables to storage services. |

## Deprecated feature

The [optimistic transaction mode](/optimistic-transaction.md) will be deprecated in a future release. Starting from v7.1.0, it is not recommended to set the value of `tidb_txn_mode` to `"optimistic"` or `""`.

## Improvements

+ TiDB

  <!-- **tw:hfxsd** (5) -->

>     - Support to use `SQL_NO_CACHE` to prevent TTL Scan queries from impacting the TiKV block cache [#43206](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43206) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Support using `SQL_NO_CACHE` to prevent TTL Scan queries from impacting the TiKV block cache [#43206](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43206) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

    - Support using the MergeSort operator on partitioned tables in IndexLookUp [#26166](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26166) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Enhance `caching_sha2_password` to make it compatible with MySQL [#43576](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43576) @[asjdf](https://github.com/asjdf)

+ TiKV

  <!-- **tw:Oreoxmt** (5)-->

    - Reduce the impact of split operations on write QPS when using partitioned Raft KV [#14447](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14447) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
    - Optimize the space occupied by snapshots when using partitioned Raft KV [#14581](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14581) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - Provide more detailed time information for each stage of processing requests in TiKV [#12362](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12362) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
    - Use PD as metastore in log backup [#13867](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13867) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

+ PD

  <!-- **tw:ran-huang** (3)-->

>     - Add a controller that automatically adjusts the size of the store limit based on the execution details of the snapshot. To enable this controller, set `store-limit-version` to `v2`. Once enabled, you do not need to manually adjust the configuration to control the speed of scaling in or scaling out [#6147](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6147) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Add a controller that automatically adjusts the size of the store limit based on the execution details of the snapshot. To enable this controller, set `store-limit-version` to `v2`. Once enabled, you do not need to manually adjust the `store limit` configuration to control the speed of scaling in or scaling out [#6147](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6147) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
```

>     - Add historical load information to avoid frequent scheduling of regions with unstable loads by the hotspot scheduler when the storage engine is raft-kv2 [#6297](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6297) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Add historical load information to avoid frequent scheduling of Regions with unstable loads by the hotspot scheduler when the storage engine is raft-kv2 [#6297](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6297) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
```

+ TiFlash

    - Improve TiFlash performance and stability in the disaggregated storage and compute architecture [#6882](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6882) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - Support optimizing query performance in Semi Join or Anti Semi Join by selecting the smaller table as the build side [#7280](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7280) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - (dup) Improve performance of data import from BR and TiDB Lightning to TiFlash with default configurations [#7272](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7272) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)
      <!-- **tw:hfxsd** (1) -->
        - Support modifying the `tikv.log-backup.max-flush-interval` configuration item during backing up logs [#14433](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14433) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)

    + TiCDC
      <!-- **tw:ran-huang** (6) -->

>         - Optimize the directory structure when DDL events occur under the scenario of replicating data to object storage [#8890](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8890) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Optimize the directory structure when DDL events occur in the scenario of replicating data to object storage [#8890](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8890) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
```

        - Optimize the method of setting GC TLS for the upstream when the TiCDC replication task fails [#8403](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8403) @[charleszheng44](https://github.com/charleszheng44)
        - Support replicating data to the Kakfa-on-Pulsar downstream [#8892](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8892) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

>         - Support using the open-protocol protocol to only replicate columns that have changed after an update occurs when replicating data to Kafka [#8706](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8706) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Support using the open-protocol protocol to only replicate the changed columns after an update occurs when replicating data to Kafka [#8706](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8706) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
```

>         - Optimize the error handling of TiCDC in the downstream failure or other scenarios [#8657](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8657) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Optimize the error handling of TiCDC in the downstream failures or other scenarios [#8657](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8657) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
```

        - Add a configuration item to control whether to set the authentication algorithm in the scenario of enabling TLS [#8867](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8867) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

    + TiDB Lightning
      <!-- **tw:hfxsd** (3) -->
        - Change the severity level of the precheck item related to uneven distribution of regions from `Critical` to `Warn` to avoid blocking users from importing data [#42836](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42836) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
        - Add retry after an unknown RPC error occurs during data import [#43291](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43291) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
        - Enhance the retry mechanism for region jobs [#43682](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43682) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

  <!-- **tw:Oreoxmt** (18) -->

>     - Fix the issue that there is no prompt to manually execute `ANALYZE TABLE` after reorganizing partitions [#42183](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42183) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that there is no prompt about manually executing `ANALYZE TABLE` after reorganizing partitions [#42183](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42183) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
```

    - (dup) Fix the issue of missing table names in the `ADMIN SHOW DDL JOBS` result when a `DROP TABLE` operation is being executed [#42268](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42268) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue that `Ignore Event Per Minute` and `Stats Cache LRU Cost` charts might not be displayed normally in the Grafana monitoring panel [#42562](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42562) @[pingandb](https://github.com/pingandb)

>     - Fix the issue that `ORDINAL_POSITION` column returns incorrect results when querying the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.COLUMNS` table [#43379](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43379) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `ORDINAL_POSITION` column returns incorrect results when querying the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.COLUMNS` table [#43379](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43379) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133)
```

    - (dup) Fix the issue that after a new column is added in the cache table, the value is `NULL` instead of the default value of the column [#42928](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42928) @[lqs](https://github.com/lqs)
    - Fix the issue that CTE results are incorrect when pushing down predicates [#43645](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43645) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - (dup) Fix the issue of DDL retry caused by write conflict when executing `TRUNCATE TABLE` for partitioned tables with many partitions and TiFlash replicas [#42940](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42940) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - Fix the issue that there is no warning when using `SUBPARTITION` in creating partitioned tables [#41198](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41198) [#41200](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41200) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - Fix the incompatibility issue with MySQL when dealing with value overflow issues in generated columns [#40066](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40066) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)

>     - Fix the issue that `REORGANIZE PARTITION` cannot be concurrent with other DDL operations [#42442](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42442) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `REORGANIZE PARTITION` cannot be concurrently executed with other DDL operations [#42442](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42442) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133)
```

    - Fix the issue that canceling the partition reorganization task in DDL might cause subsequent DDL operations to fail [#42448](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42448) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - Fix the issue that assertions on delete operations are incorrect under certain conditions [#42426](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42426) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - (dup) Fix the issue that TiDB server cannot start due to an error in reading the cgroup information with the error message "can't read file memory.stat from cgroup v1: open /sys/memory.stat no such file or directory" [#42659](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42659) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

>     - Fix the issue of `Duplicate Key` error when updating the partition key of a row on a partitioned table with a global index [#42312](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42312) @[L-maple](https://github.com/L-maple)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the `Duplicate Key` issue that occurs when updating the partition key of a row on a partitioned table with a global index [#42312](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42312) @[L-maple](https://github.com/L-maple)
```

    - Fix the issue that the `Scan Worker Time By Phase` chart in the TTL monitoring panel does not display data [#42515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42515) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - Fix the issue that some queries on partitioned tables with a global index return incorrect results [#41991](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41991) [#42065](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42065) @[L-maple](https://github.com/L-maple)
  <!-- **tw:ran-huang** (17) -->

>     - Fix the issue of displaying some error logs during the process of reorganizing partitioned table [#42180](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42180) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of displaying some error logs during the process of reorganizing a partitioned table [#42180](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42180) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
```

    - Fix the issue that the data length in the `QUERY` column of the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.DDL_JOBS` table might exceed the column definition [#42440](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42440) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue that the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_HARDWARE` table might display incorrect values in containers [#42851](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42851) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

>     - Fix the issue that the incorrect result is returned when querying a partitioned table using `ORDER BY` + `LIMIT` [#43158](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43158) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that an incorrect result is returned when you query a partitioned table using `ORDER BY` + `LIMIT` [#43158](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43158) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

>     - Fix the issue of multiple DDL tasks running simultaneously using the injest methods [#42903](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42903) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of multiple DDL tasks running simultaneously using the injest method [#42903](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42903) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
```

    - (dup) Fix the wrong value returned when querying a partitioned table using `Limit` [#24636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24636)
    - Fix the issue of displaying the incorrect TiDB address in IPv6 environment [#43260](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43260) @[nexustar](https://github.com/nexustar)
    - Fix the issue of displaying incorrect values for system variables `tidb_enable_tiflash_read_for_write_stmt` and `tidb_enable_exchange_partition` [#43281](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43281) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - Fix the issue that the proxy protocol reports the `Header read timeout` error when processing certain erroneous data [#43205](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43205) @[blacktear23](https://github.com/blacktear23)
    - Fix the issue that when `tidb_scatter_region` is enabled, Region does not automatically split after a partition is truncated [#43174](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43174) [#43028](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43028) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)

>     - Add checks on the table with generated columns and report errors for DDL operations on unsupported columns [#38988](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38988) [#24321](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24321) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Add checks on the tables with generated columns and report errors for unsupported DDL operations on these columns [#38988](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38988) [#24321](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24321) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
```

    - Fix the issue that the error message is incorrect in certain type conversion errors [#41730](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41730) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that after a TiDB node is normally shutdown, DDL tasks triggered on this node will be canceled [#43854](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43854) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
    - Fix the issue that when the PD member address changes, allocating ID for the `AUTO_INCREMENT` column will be blocked for a long time [#42643](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42643) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

>     - Fix the issue of the `GC lifetime is shorter than transaction duration` error during DDL execution [#40074](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40074) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of reporting the `GC lifetime is shorter than transaction duration` error during DDL execution [#40074](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40074) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
```

+ PD

  <!-- **tw:Oreoxmt** (5) -->
    - Fix the issue that the number of `low space store` in the PD monitoring panel is abnormal after TiKV panics [#6252](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6252) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Fix the issue that Region Health monitoring data is deleted after PD leader switch [#6366](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6366) @[iosmanthus](https://github.com/iosmanthus)
    - Fix the issue that the rule checker cannot repair unhealthy Regions with the label `schedule=deny` [#6426](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6426) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - Fix the issue that some existing labels are lost after TiKV or TiFlash restarts [#6467](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6467) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)
    - Fix the issue that the replication status cannot be switched when there are learner nodes in the replication mode [#14704](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/14704) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)

+ TiFlash

  <!-- **tw:qiancai** (2) -->

>     - Fix the issue that querying data in the TIMESTAMP or TIME type returns errors after enabling late materialization [#7455](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7455) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that querying data in the `TIMESTAMP` or `TIME` type returns errors after enabling late materialization [#7455](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7455) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
```

        - Fix the issue that panic might occur during partial write [#43363](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43363) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that OOM  might occur when importing a table with a large row size [#43728](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43728) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
        - Fix the issue of missing data in the TiDB Lightning Grafana panel [#43357](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43357) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)
        - Fix the issue of import failure due to incorrect setting of keyspace names [#43684](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43684) @[zeminzhou](https://github.com/zeminzhou)
        - Fix the issue of skipping data import during range partial write in some cases [#43768](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43768) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

## Contributors

We would like to thank the following contributors from the TiDB community:

- [asjdf](https://github.com/asjdf)
- [blacktear23](https://github.com/blacktear23)

> - [dhysum](https://github.com/dhysum)

Author: ```suggestion
```
